So now we're starting to get to the point
where we actually can use Shiny
in a way that would be helpful for us.
And one of the main ways
in which Shiny is useful,
is in creating interactive graphics.
R, by default,
doesn't have a lot of capacity for
creating interactive graphics.
Shiny really expands that capacity, and
gives you a nice way to disseminate your
results, because they're embedded in a Web
page that you could put out very broadly.
So in this case,
we're going to create an interactive plot.
We're going to actually have a little
bit more code in the server.R functions.
And, I think at this point,
once you go through this example,
you should hopefully be able to start
using Shiny in a much more realistic
way that would help you with your
day to day data science needs.
Okay, so let's get right to it.
Okay, so I've copied the code
from the R markdown document.
And let's just run it first and
see the app before we start
digging into its internals.
So what it basically does,
is it plots two sets of random uniforms.
So you input the number of uniforms, and
see this is a text box that
also has an increment and
decrement operator here in the buttons
on the right hand side, okay?
And then you have these sliders
that can change the range
of the uniforms that you generate
both on the X axis and on the Y axis.
Then you have these buttons that
say Show/Hide the X Axis Label,
Show/Hide the Y Axis Label,
Show/Hide the Title.
So we have these three check boxes here,
these two sliders, okay?
And our numeric input right here, okay?
And notice how the code is
executed interactively, right?
Every time I change a value it's rerun,
the whole set of code is rerun.
So that's something you're going to have
to get used to with Shiny, is how to
program with its server calculations and
its reactive coding, which operates in
my mind, a little bit differently than
standard highly linear R programming.
Okay, so now let's go through the code and
see how we accomplish this.
So I think it's usually best to start
out going through the UI.r function,
the Shiny UI function, okay?
So title pane, we know about that, okay?
The numeric input, okay,
it's labeling that input numeric.
And then here's the title, and
then it gives you the starting value, and
then it gives you the minimum and
the maximum, so
you don't input values above or
below that range.
And then the step sizer for
those little buttons,
when you push those little buttons,
how much it steps, okay?
Then we have the two sliders, we've
gone through the sliders before, okay?
All right, and notice these sliders there.
It had the double slider,
it had the two values, okay?
So you need the two values here and
the two values here, so
that you can have the slider
at the two points.
And here's the Y slider,
basically the same thing.
And then here's our three check boxes.
Okay, so just back to the sliders,
notice the first one was sliderX
the second one was sliderY.
And then these have very obvious labels,
"show_xlab", "show_ylab",
"show_title", okay?
Then in the main panel,
it's just going to show the graph, and
it's going to do plotOutput of plot1.
So it's somewhere in our server function
we're going to have to create something
called plot1 that is going to get sent
back to our user interface, okay?
Now in our server, shinyServer,
it looks like it always does.
It has function(input, output), or
curly braces, cause it's a function, and
then output$plot1.
Okay, this is good.
This means that the output
from our shinyServer is
going to have something labeled plot1, so
that when we display it with the user
interface, there will be a plot1 there.
And okay, because it's a plot,
the statement is renderPlot, okay?
And then all of our reactive expressions,
reactive means kind of interacting
with server calculations, okay?
They're going to have this notation
where they have the curly braces next to
the parentheses from
the renderPlot statements.
So you gotta get used to writing these
curly braces in reactive statements, okay?
So just get used to that code.
Okay, so here we're just
setting a random number seed.
Okay, now here we're just
doing some regular R coding.
The number of points we're just
re-labeling the input$numeric.
And that's just for convenience so
we don't have to actually
refer to the input function to make
our code look a little bit readable.
And honestly, for pedagogical purposes
here, where I'm just showing you how you
grab the numeric value from
that numeric input, okay?
So the min for X, the max for
X are the elements of the slider.
And these come out as input as a list,
and the slider X value is a vector.
And so the first element of
the vector is that minimum value,
the second element of
the vector is the larger value.
Same thing for our two Y points,
and so we're going to do those.
We're going to assign
those all to variables,
because it would be a lot to type if we
wanted to reuse those every time, okay?
And then our data,
the list of random uniform numbers,
is just going to be runif.
That just generates a bunch
of random uniform numbers.
And this takes in the number of points,
and
the range between the min of the X and
the max of the X.
And then our dataY, and
that'll just return a vector of uniforms.
DataY, number of points,
okay, minY, maxY, okay?
The label, right, is,
this is just an ifelse statement.
The input$show_xlab is the check boxes,
is either going to be true or false as to
whether or not it's checked, and that's
going to be in this label show_xlab,
because remember that's what we
labeled that check box, okay?
And then it's saying if that's true,
in other words if showing the label,
then give the label "X Axis",
if not, give it nothing.
Same thing with ylab.
So, these are two just R
variables that are going to be
the text that we're going to
display in the plot, okay?
And the same thing with the title, so
the title is going to be if this is true,
we're going to have
the title labeled "Title",
otherwise it's just going to
be labeled nothing, okay?
And then we give our plot.
We're going to plot our X data with our
Y data, our xlab is going to be xlab,
where that is defined as
either "X Axis" or nothing.
Ylab is going to be ylab, where that's
either going to be defined as "Y Axis" or
nothing.
And the main, same thing with the main,
is either going to be "Title" or nothing.
And then our x limit is going to be
always set, fixed at those values.
That's why the plot is
always in the same space.
Y limit is always this, and
then we'll return it, okay?
So that's it.
Let's run it again now that we know
what it's doing, and look at it again.
So remember what it's doing
as we change a value, okay?
It's taking this value, right?
This is input for the server.
This is going to be input,
slider X, value one, okay?
This is going to be,
yeah, that's the minimum.
I think I said right earlier,
but it should have been left.
This is going to be slider X,
value two, okay?
This is going to be slider Y, value one,
this is going to be slider Y, value two.
This is going to be true or false for
show X lab, this is going to be true or
false for show Y lab, okay?
And so whats going on,
is as we put in these values,
the Shiny server is always checking for
new things.
And every time it's got a new set of
values, it's re-running everything and
re-displaying it, going back and
forth between the server and the UI, okay?
So later on we'll show you how to put in
a done button in case your calculations
going on in the back-end
are much weightier, and
you don't want to run them immediately
upon receiving new values.
Right now this is such fast code,
that doesn't matter.
But later on we'll show you
how to put a done button.
That will help in these instances
where when you click a button,
it runs a gigantic Monte Carlo
simulation or something like that, okay?
But this a pretty nice,
handy little interactive graphic.
I mean, it's not doing anything very
terribly meaningful, but I think you could
extend this to your setting, where it's
actually doing something quite meaningful.
Okay, so now your homework
is go through this example,
create a plot,
maybe use some different kinds of inputs.
Don't just use sliders and numeric inputs,
try some other kinds of inputs.
And create an interactive graphic,
a simple interactive graphic in Shiny